hey welcome another episode of Atkins
diet low carb my name is course ken
Tulsa and this week's episode has to do
with hitting carbs it's one of these
things that generally creep into your
diet you're trying your best to count 20
grams of carbs for less per day but
you're still not losing or you're not
into ketosis like you had wished you
were and you're wondering how is that
possible why am I not getting into
ketosis like I thought I should well the
short answer is food companies can lie
food companies can round down if
something has point eight grams of carbs
they can say it has zero grams so how do
you discover these hidden carbs within
one's diet one has to become an expert
label reader not only do you need to
read the ingredients label like we
talked about with our Atkins diet label
reading quiz one needs to be able to
figure out how many calories are coming
from what source in terms of fat protein
or carbohydrates on each product and one
of these things that typically happen is
that because they've browned it down
they'll be unaccounted for calories
within the product and I'll be going
over three different examples that I'll
show up on the screen and talk about and
figure out exactly how many unaccounted
for calories are possible hidden carbs
there are in each one of these products
alright
the first one as you can see is a very
common one that one has within a low
carb guy potentially sugar-free jell-o
and you see in the nutrition facts list
that there's ten calories per serving so
we take that and go down and discover
that there's indeed zero grams of fat
zero grams of carbs but one gram of
protein well knowing nutrition like we
do we know that each gram of fat is nine
calories per serving of course nine
times zero zero each gram of
carbohydrates is four calories per gram
and of course zero times four is zero
again and we take the one gram of
protein to the four Keller calories per
gram of protein and of that one times
four equals four so we take ten minus
four and we have these sets unto counted
four calories
what are they well chances are that
they're probably some carbohydrates
perhaps some protein and perhaps some
fat as well to be safe on that side I
would count this product not knowing
where these sets come from as at least
one gram of carbs so even though it says
zero grams of carbs counted as one gram
of carbs just to be safe okay well
surely jello can't be alone so let's
take a look at this ragu pizza sauce you
can see that it has 40 calories per
serving and it has two grams of fat
which I 18 calories 4 grams of carbs
which would make it 16 calories and one
gram of protein which would add in
another 4 calories adding the 18 plus 16
plus 4 gives me a grand total of 38
calories well what happened to those
other two kit unaccounted more calories
in that case is probably another half
gram of carbs so rather than counting
this product as a total of 4
carbohydrates I would count it as a
total of 4.5 total carbohydrates
subtracting out the 1 dietary fiber that
would make it a 3.5 net carb serving in
order to make sure that everyone has a
firm grasp on this we're going to do one
more time we're going to do with this
alfredo sauce and you can see from the
this label is it has a total calorie
count for serving as 110 calories so we
read down the label and we see that the
total fat grams are 10 grams do the easy
easy math 99 times 10 equals 90 calories
we take we see also see that there are
two grams of carbohydrates within this
so we do the easy math two times for
eight calories and finally we look at
proteins and we see it has one gram of
protein we do the easy math one times
four four calories
add up the amounts 90 calories for the
fat eight calories for the carbohydrates
and four calories for the protein and we
end up with a grand total of 102 Keller
out of the 110 leaving a total of eight
unaccounted for calories within this
thing well what are they well they're
probably fat and they're probably some
more carbohydrates and potentially some
protein too so what do you do to be safe
I would count this particular item as
three grams of total carbs just to make
sure that I counted for any possible
carbs that could be within this recipe
well I hope this reaches everyone in
great health and if you have any
questions about the math there or what I
did try to portray here I'm going to
certainly answer any of the questions in
the comment section below
and make sure you subscribe because I
have many more recipe videos coming up
bye